---
title: "5 Tips to Get Better Sleep"
date: 2021-11-09T02:02:00
slug: "5-tips-to-get-better-sleep"
status: "publish"
id: 4988
link: "https://sydneychiropractorcbd.com.au/5-tips-to-get-better-sleep/"
excerpt: "5 Tips to Get Better Sleep     No Tech before Bed. At least 30 minutes before bed, try and switch off all technology: tablets, phones and laptops. This reduces the amount of mental and emotional stimulation which often keeps us awake. The blue-light that comes out of these devices can actually reduce levels of a hormone [&hellip;]"
thumbnail: "5-tips-to-get-better-sleep.jpeg"
---

5 Tips to Get Better Sleep No Tech before Bed.At least 30 minutes before bed, try and switch off all technology: tablets, phones and laptops. This reduces the amount of mental and emotional stimulation which often keeps us awake. The blue-light that comes out of these devices can actually reduce levels of a hormone called melatonin, which is something that we need to help us drop into deep, relaxing sleep. Hack &#8211; Put your devices into a different room so you are less tempted to use them or turn off your wifi an hour before you are ready to go to sleep. These tips are brought to you by Clinic 27. Visit them today for all your chiropractic needs. Maintain Sleep Consistency. The most important thing you can do to maintain your circadian rhythm (your body&#8217;s 24-hour internal clock, which regulates your sleep/wake cycle) is focus on your sleep consistency &#8211; going to bed and waking up as close to the same time each day as possible. Your sleep quality will improve and your body will perform better when it can anticipate the onset of sleep every night. Hack &#8211; Going outside in the morning and exposing yourself to natural light actually helps you sleep better in the evening. It does this by helping you set your body&#8217;s daily circadian rhythm. Create a Routine. With the hectic lifestyles that most of us now lead, adults benefit from a bed-time routine just as much as kids. Many of us expect to be able to finish off our work e-mails and then immediately go to bed and drop off instantly &#8211; this is unrealistic for the majority of us. Hack &#8211; Taking a relaxing bath, dimming lights, spraying lavender essential oil or reading a book will all help you to get your body prepared so that it can drift off into relaxing and restorative sleep. Meditate or Consciously Breathe to Relax. Explore guided meditations, like yoga nidra, as a form of relaxation, or pay attention to your breathing. Practising full belly breaths before bed to relax and calm yourself as needed. Lay off the alcohol, cigarettes and caffeine before bed, as they can make it harder to get to sleep or may disrupt your sleep. Hack &#8211; Once in bed close your eyes and take ten deep, full belly breaths to help you wash away the day. Make Your Bedroom a Sanctuary. Your room is for sleeping so if you can avoid working from your bedroom. Invest in nice sheets and pillows, keep it clean and clutter-free. Keep light and noise to a minimum. Create a sleep playlist with soft, gentle music to slow your heart rate and help you unwind. Ensure the room is at the most comfortable temperature for a good night’s rest. Hack &#8211; Clear the clutter each night before you sleep. A cluttered space is a cluttered mind. Make it part of your routine each evening. Checkout out our workshops for any issues you may be having with your body or lifestyle.
