---
title: "Chiropractic Adjustements"
date: 2021-12-27T00:30:00
slug: "chiropratic-care-adjustments"
status: "publish"
id: 5057
link: "https://sydneychiropractorcbd.com.au/chiropratic-care-adjustments/"
excerpt: "How do they work?&nbsp;&nbsp; Spinal joints that are&nbsp;“locked up”, fixated or not moving right can affect your health by&nbsp;“choking”&nbsp;or irritating nearby nerve tissue. Chiropractic adjustments add motion to these stuck areas. This helps restore nervous system integrity and can improve the healing process.&nbsp; Like an experienced piano tuner, your Chiropractic doctor has become a master [&hellip;]"
thumbnail: "chiropratic-care-adjustments.jpeg"
---

How do they work? Spinal joints that are “locked up”, fixated or not moving right can affect your health by “choking” or irritating nearby nerve tissue. Chiropractic adjustments add motion to these stuck areas. This helps restore nervous system integrity and can improve the healing process. Like an experienced piano tuner, your Chiropractic doctor has become a master at finetuning the way your spine works. Sometimes the doctor’s hands deliver a quick, highly accurate thrust. Or an instrument directs a repeatable force to a fixated spinal joint. Other times, a slow constant pressure is used. Some Chiropractic doctors use special tables with moving sections. Several areas of the spine may be adjusted or just one area. The key is to use the precise amount of energy. At the exact spot. In the right direction. At just the right time, to get spinal joints moving again. Chiropractic is truly an art. Your chiropractic doctor has become a master at one or more adjusting techniques. Each adjustment builds on the ones before. Keep your appointments for the best results! Just about anyone can get adjusted. Newborns, infants, children, seniors and even failed back surgery patients can benefit. Naturally, your doctors tailor your chiropractic care to your size, age and unique health problem. Adjustments help reduce nervous system interferences and “reconnect” the vital communication link between your brain and your body. With the intent of reducing nervous system irritation, chiropractic adjustments are specific. Targeted. Focused. And more precise than spinal “manipulations” or “mobilisation”. It is this precision, combined with the purpose of reducing nervous system irritation, which has helped so many people. Adjusting approaches are modified to suit the specific needs of each patient. Adjustments use the least amount of force possible to get fixated joints moving again. What do adjustments feel like? After the brief thrust, many patients report a sense of well-being or a feeling of calmness. Others feel improved mobility. Inflammation or muscle spasms may delay these positive effects. Chiropractic doctor excel at making adjustments comfortable and effective. Are adjustments safe? Yes, they are. A New Zealand government study concluded that chiropractic adjustments are “remarkably safe”. Taking an over-the-counter pain reliever is about 100 times more risky. Will adjustments make my spine too loose? No. Only the spinal joints that are “locked up” receive adjustments. This allows weakened muscles and ligaments to stabilise and heal. What makes the sound? Lubricating fluids separate the bones of each spinal joint. Some adjusting methods can produce a sound when the gas and fluids in the joints shift. It is much like opening a can of soda or removing a suction cup. The sound is interesting but isn’t a guide to the quality or value of the adjustment. Can I adjust myself? No. Some patients can make their joints “pop” but that’s not an adjustment! Even your chiropractic doctor must consult a colleague to benefit from chiropractic care.
