---
title: "Chiropractic Help for Headaches and Migraines"
date: 2021-12-06T00:30:00
slug: "chiropractic-help-for-headaches-and-migraines"
status: "publish"
id: 5028
link: "https://sydneychiropractorcbd.com.au/chiropractic-help-for-headaches-and-migraines/"
excerpt: "Can You Make Them Go Away? &nbsp; There are many types and causes of headaches. Regardless of the cause, if you have a headache, you want it to end. Fast! &nbsp;&nbsp; This has produced a huge market for medications that cover up the symptoms of headaches. Powerful drugs can numb your nervous&nbsp;system&nbsp;so the pain doesn&#8217;t register. While [&hellip;]"
thumbnail: "chiropractic-help-for-headaches-and-migraines.jpeg"
---

Can You Make Them Go Away? There are many types and causes of headaches. Regardless of the cause, if you have a headache, you want it to end. Fast! This has produced a huge market for medications that cover up the symptoms of headaches. Powerful drugs can numb your nervous system so the pain doesn&#8217;t register. While these approaches may be convenient, they can cause adverse effects and kidney or liver damage. Worse, they don&#8217;t correct the underlying cause of the headache. Headaches may be common, but they&#8217;re not normal! A cause of headaches can be from spinal bones in the neck that aren&#8217;t supporting your head properly. They&#8217;re not moving right. This can affect nerves, muscles and even the blood supply to your head. Headaches can be related to vision problems and other causes. Our examinations can show if you are likely to be helped with chiropractic. Chiropractic doctors locate areas of the spine that aren&#8217;t moving properly. They notice if proper spinal curves are present. They look at your posture and your ability to turn and bend. These and many other examinations can help determine if you are likely to benefit from chiropractic care. Your body does not have an aspirin shortage! Medications merely numb your body, ignoring the underlying cause. If you&#8217;re a good chiropractic candidate, your care will consist of a schedule of chiropractic adjustments. These help normalise spinal function, help restore essential spinal curves, improve circulation and reduce nerve irritation. Many patients report fewer and less severe headaches. Just as the foundation affects a building, headaches and neck pain can be a reaction to problems in the pelvis or lower back. While we can&#8217;t guarantee results, our office has a high success rate with patients who get headaches. Many headaches are the result of a loss of curve in the neck, affecting nerves, muscles and blood supply to the head. What causes headaches? The most common causes are physical trauma, emotional stress, nutritional deficiencies or chemical toxins. Sometimes there may be a combination of these and other factors. Our examination process helps identify the most likely cause. How long will it take? Some patients enjoy results quickly. Others notice a slow decline in their symptoms after several weeks or longer of chiropractic care. It&#8217;s impossible to predict. If you&#8217;ve had chronic headaches for many years, improvement can take time. What if I don&#8217;t have a headache when I come in? Chiropractic isn&#8217;t an aspirin! Repeated visits, even when you&#8217;re feeling better, can help retrain and strengthen the muscles that support your spine. Just as it takes more than one or two workouts at the gym to get in shape, it takes time for your spine to heal. What if chiropractic doesn&#8217;t work? Headaches may be common, but they&#8217;re not normal. Every headache has a cause. If we&#8217;re unable to find and correct the cause of your headaches, we can refer to other specialists who may be able to help. Your health is our only goal.
