---
title: "Spinal Decay: Symptoms &#038; Treatment"
date: 2021-05-31T13:54:18
slug: "spinal-decay"
status: "publish"
id: 4445
link: "https://sydneychiropractorcbd.com.au/spinal-decay/"
excerpt: "How Do I Know If I Have Spinal Decay?&nbsp; Your body adapts to uncorrected spinal stress by depositing calcium into affected joints. As if the body is trying to mend a broken bone, it attempts to &#8220;repair&#8221; the malfunctioning spinal joint by joining the two segments together! We call this slow, relentless, degenerative process &#8220;spinal [&hellip;]"
thumbnail: "spinal-decay.jpg"
---

How Do I Know If I Have Spinal Decay?&nbsp; Your body adapts to uncorrected spinal stress by depositing calcium into affected joints. As if the body is trying to mend a broken bone, it attempts to &#8220;repair&#8221; the malfunctioning spinal joint by joining the two segments together! We call this slow, relentless, degenerative process &#8220;spinal decay.&#8221; As with tooth decay, early detection of spinal decay can help avoid painful symptoms and permanent damage.&nbsp; Spinal decay is a degenerative process that worsens with time. If neglected or simply ignored, this crippling condition quietly progresses, without obvious symptoms.&nbsp; It starts with some type of uncorrected trauma to the spine. A slip or fall. A car accident. Learning to walk. Even the birth process may be responsible! The first &#8220;phase&#8221; of spinal decay is revealed as a loss of proper spinal curve or a reduced ability to turn and bend. Other areas of the spine often compensate, starting a chain reaction of health problems.&nbsp; Like a rigid cast, muscles tighten and connective tissues&nbsp;attempt to &#8220;splint&#8221; the abnormally functioning spinal joint, reducing movement and setting the stage for fusion.&nbsp; Left uncorrected, the body responds by depositing calcium onto the affected joint surfaces, ligaments and connective tissues. This second phase of decay is the result of the body&#8217;s attempt to stabilise and &#8220;splint&#8221; the malfunctioning spinal joint. As with high blood pressure or cancer, pain or other obvious symptoms are often absent.&nbsp; Unaware of the serious damage that is occurring, many allow their problem to worsen.&nbsp;Your body&#8217;s crude attempt at &#8220;remodelling&#8221; the affected spinal joint may result in chronic problems as your health goes downhill.&nbsp; In the third phase of spinal decay, the integrity of the spine has become permanently compromised. The associated neurological damage can contribute to some of the chronic health problems seen in the elderly. Years have passed since the original event that set this tragic, yet preventable, process in motion.&nbsp; The purpose of chiropractic care is to locate areas of the spine that are not working right and use specific &#8220;adjustments&#8221; to improve its function and structure. This simple but powerful intervention has helped millions avoid the crippling effects of spinal decay.&nbsp; Many believe that uncorrected spinal trauma from the birth process starts the spinal decay seen later in adults. That&#8217;s why we suggest a thorough chiropractic examination for newborns and infants from our chiropractors in Sydney CBD. Textbook Normal&nbsp; The side view of your neck should have a gentle forward curve, equal disc spacing and unobstructed openings for nerve roots to exit the spinal cord.&nbsp; Phase 1 The first phase of spinal decay involves loss of curve and reduced range of motion. Pain or other obvious symptoms may not be present! Phase 2 If still neglected, bone spurs form and the body starts &#8220;splinting&#8221; the abnormally functioning spinal joint with abnormal bony growth. Phase 3 The body can turn affected spinal joints into a solid block of calcium! This irreversible condition can produce permanent nerve damage.&nbsp; Isn&#8217;t this Just part of the Normal Aging Process? Because spinal decay is often (but not always) seen in the elderly, some people are misled into believing that it is merely part of the aging process. Not true. It seems clear that it is the result of long-standing, uncorrected spinal stress. Can Chiropractic Care Help with Advanced Cases of Spinal Decay? Absolutely. While chiropractic care cannot help areas of the spine already fused together, areas of the spine not yet affected can often benefit from chiropractic care. Can Spinal Decay be Reversed? When it is detected at an early stage, chiropractic intervention can produce remarkable benefits. In Phase 1 cases, many patients see the restoration of spinal curves and improved mobility. Chiropractic care at later stages shows promise, but results vary from patient to patient.
