---
title: "What Is a Subluxation?"
date: 2021-05-31T13:58:25
slug: "subluxations"
status: "publish"
id: 4450
link: "https://sydneychiropractorcbd.com.au/subluxations/"
excerpt: "How Come l Have Never Heard of Subluxations?&nbsp; Maybe you&#8217;ve never heard of subluxations. That&#8217;s OK. Like the separate notes of a musical chord, a subluxation can simultaneously involve joints, nerves, muscles, soft tissues and degenerative changes. Like a puppeteer, your nervous system controls every cell and tissue. A disruption of nerve impulses can have serious consequences. Subluxations [&hellip;]"
thumbnail: "subluxations.jpg"
---

How Come l Have Never Heard of Subluxations?&nbsp; Maybe you&#8217;ve never heard of subluxations. That&#8217;s OK. Like the separate notes of a musical chord, a subluxation can simultaneously involve joints, nerves, muscles, soft tissues and degenerative changes. Like a puppeteer, your nervous system controls every cell and tissue. A disruption of nerve impulses can have serious consequences. Subluxations are serious!&nbsp; However, the most important aspect of a subluxation is its affect on your nervous system. Compromising the way your nervous system controls and regulates your body can have grave consequences. Distorted communications between your brain and your body can cause all kinds of health problems beyond just headaches and backaches. Subluxations can be caused by physical trauma, chemical toxins,&nbsp;or emotional stress.&nbsp; &nbsp;You have more than 200 bones in your body. Whenever two bones come together at a joint, there can be movement. Since joints in your spine are so close to your spinal cord and nerve roots, too much or too little joint motion can have serious effects.&nbsp;If spinal bones get &#8220;stuck&#8221; and don&#8217;t move right, they can irritate or chafe delicate nerves. If a joint moves too much, spinal bones can press against adjacent nerve tissue. This can interfere with the vital &#8220;life force&#8221; transmitted over your nervous system that helps keep your brain in touch with your body.&nbsp;Like a cell phone that disconnects, a subluxation causes your brain and your body to lose vital communications.&nbsp;The result is the vertebral subluxation complex, or more simply, a subluxation.&nbsp; More than bones and nerves are involved. Muscles can become too tight or too weak. Discs, ligaments and other connective tissues can become inflamed. Bone spurs and arthritic degeneration can set in.&nbsp; Your chiropractic doctor is the only licensed health care professional dedicated to the detection, reduction and prevention of spinal subluxations. You&#8217;re in good hands!&nbsp; How Do You Get a Subluxation?&nbsp; There are three basic causes of subluxations. Physical causes include slips and falls, accidents, repetitive motions and improper lifting. Stress, anger and fear are examples of emotional causes of subluxations. Alcohol, drugs, pollution and poor diet can be chemical causes of subluxations.&nbsp; How Do I Know if I Have a Subluxation?&nbsp; You can have subluxations and not even know it. Like tooth decay or cancer, subluxations can be present before any warning signs appear. The results of a thorough examination can show the location and severity of any subluxations you may have.&nbsp; Can Subluxations Clear Up on Their Own?&nbsp; Sometimes. Today&#8217;s hectic lifestyles are a constant source of subluxations. Fortunately, our bodies have the ability to self-correct many of these minor problems as we bend and stretch, or when we sleep at night. When subluxations don&#8217;t resolve, you need a chiropractic doctor!&nbsp; Can Children Get a Subluxation?&nbsp; Your first subluxation probably occurred from the birth process. Even &#8220;modern&#8221; childbirth methods can put tremendous pressure on an infant&#8217;s spine. Poor appetite, unexplained crying and sleeplessness can be signs of spinal subluxations.&nbsp;Since the birth process can be a common cause, wise parents&nbsp;have their newborns checked for subluxations. Contact Clinic 27 Today If you seek to learn more about subluxations, contact our Sydney chiropractors today.
